README.md, before:

![Test](https://github.com/zotonic/router/workflows/Test/badge.svg)



router
======

router is an in-memory trie based path router for Erlang.
It can be used to route paths to destinations. It has single-level,
and multi-level wildcard levels.

It can be used for arbitrary path/hierarchical based routing, and you
can have multiple independent routers.

Usage
-----

Create a new router like this:

```erlang
   Router = router:new()
```

This creates multiple ets tables which are owned by the calling process. It
is advised to call this inside a gen_server.

Now you can add routes like this:

```erlang
   router:add(Router, [<<"a">>, <<"b">>], MyDestination),
   ...
```

This creates a route from path ```<<"a">>, <<"b">>``` to the information inside 
'MyDestination'. It is important that routes are added synchronized. It is best
to do it inside a handle_call or handle_cast of a single gen_server.

After this it is possible to route request paths to destinations:

```erlang
  Routes = router:route(Router, [<<"foo">>, <<"bar">>]),
  ...
```

Calls to ```route``` can be called in parallel.


Wildcards
---------

Router has two different wildcards, multi-level and single-level wildcards.

The following wildcards are implemented:

- ```'+'```, matches one level on the path.
- ```{'+', test}```, matches one level on the paths and binds the path element to test.
- ```{'+', test, {module, function}}```, matches the element on the path if the call
  to ```module:function(PathElement)``` returns true.

There is one multi-level wildcard ```'#'``` which matches all elements on the path.

Example single-level wildcard route:

```erlang
   router:add(Router, [<<"rsc">>, {'+', id}], {controller_rsc, [{foo, <<"bar">>]})
```

When you now call ```router:route(Router,[<<"rsc">>, <<"12312">>])```, you get a list
with route tuples with all matching destinations and the list of bound variables in a
proplist. In this case: ```[{route, {controller_rsc, [{foo, <<"bar">>}]}, [{id, <<"12312">>}]```.

You get a list of matching destinations, and all elements which are bound in a proplist
as result.

Example multi-level wildcard route:

```Erlang

    router:add(Router, [<<"truck">>, <<"00001">>, '#'], self())
```

This will match all routes to ```[<<"truck">>, <<"00001">>]``` and all its sub paths. For 
example: ```[<<"truck">>, <<"00001">>, <<"temperature">>]``` will match and also 
```[<<"truck">>, <<"00001">>, <<"location">>]```.

Commit message:

General improvements
- README.md
  - Add more badges.
  - Tune markdown symantics.
- Documentation generation
  - Add settings for generating public and private EDoc documentation.
-rebar.config
  - Fix dependency (proper).

README.md, after:

[![Build Status][gh badge]][gh]
[![Hex.pm version][hexpm version]][hexpm]
[![Hex.pm Downloads][hexpm downloads]][hexpm]
[![Hex.pm Documentation][hexdocs documentation]][hexdocs]
[![Erlang Versions][erlang version badge]][gh]


router
======

router is an in-memory trie based path router for Erlang.
It can be used to route paths to destinations. It has single-level,
and multi-level wildcard levels.

It can be used for arbitrary path/hierarchical based routing, and you
can have multiple independent routers.

Usage
-----

Create a new router like this:

```erlang
   Router = router:new()
```

This creates multiple ets tables which are owned by the calling process. It
is advised to call this inside a `gen_server`.

Now you can add routes like this:

```erlang
   router:add(Router, [<<"a">>, <<"b">>], MyDestination),
   ...
```

This creates a route from path ```<<"a">>, <<"b">>``` to the information inside 
`MyDestination`. It is important that routes are added synchronized. It is best
to do it inside a `handle_call` or `handle_cast` of a single `gen_server`.

After this it is possible to route request paths to destinations:

```erlang
  Routes = router:route(Router, [<<"foo">>, <<"bar">>]),
  ...
```

Calls to ```route``` can be called in parallel.


Wildcards
---------

Router has two different wildcards, multi-level and single-level wildcards.

The following wildcards are implemented:

- `'+'`, matches one level on the path.
- `{'+', test}`, matches one level on the paths and binds the path element to test.
- `{'+', test, {module, function}}`, matches the element on the path if the call
  to `module:function(PathElement)` returns true.

There is one multi-level wildcard `'#'` which matches all elements on the path.

Example single-level wildcard route:

```erlang
   router:add(Router, [<<"rsc">>, {'+', id}], {controller_rsc, [{foo, <<"bar">>]})
```

When you now call `router:route(Router,[<<"rsc">>, <<"12312">>])`, you get a list
with route tuples with all matching destinations and the list of bound variables in a
proplist. In this case: `[{route, {controller_rsc, [{foo, <<"bar">>}]}, [{id, <<"12312">>}]`.

You get a list of matching destinations, and all elements which are bound in a proplist
as result.

Example multi-level wildcard route:

```Erlang

    router:add(Router, [<<"truck">>, <<"00001">>, '#'], self())
```

This will match all routes to `[<<"truck">>, <<"00001">>]` and all its sub paths. For 
example: `[<<"truck">>, <<"00001">>, <<"temperature">>]` will match and also 
`[<<"truck">>, <<"00001">>, <<"location">>]`.



<!-- Badges -->
[hexpm]: https://hex.pm/packages/router
[hexpm version]: https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/router.svg?style=flat-curcle "Hex version"
[hexpm downloads]: https://img.shields.io/hexpm/dt/router.svg?style=flat-curcle
[hexdocs documentation]: https://img.shields.io/badge/hex-docs-purple.svg?style=flat-curcle
[hexdocs]: https://hexdocs.pm/router
[gh]: https://github.com/zotonic/router/actions/workflows/test.yaml
[gh badge]: https://github.com/zotonic/router/workflows/Test/badge.svg
[erlang version badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Supported%20Erlang%2FOTP-21%20to%2023-blue.svg?style=flat-curcle
